# DrCS.codes

I use [Ark](https://www.dmulholl.com/docs/ark/main/) to generate a static web site, which is served by GitHub.  I chose Ark because I wanted something simple that uses Python.  I found other Python static site generators to be too complex for my taste.  I wanted a Python-based static site generator becuase I know Python and the Python ecosystem well and I want to minimize the number of different technologies I have to master to get my day-to-day work done.

I always uses virtual environments, and after decades of using various 3rd-party Python tools (pyenv, conda, etc) I strongly prefer using Python.org tools.

```sh
python3 -m venv venv
. venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Organization

```sh
tree -L2 -d # Irrelevant directories elided for brevity.
.
├── docs
│   ├── ai
│   ├── assets
│   ├── databases
│   ├── deep-learning
│   ├── images
│   ├── marl
│   ├── ml
│   ├── professional-python
│   ├── python
│   ├── rl
│   └── shared
├── ext
├── inc
├── lib
│   ├── debug
│   ├── drcs
│   └── graphite
├── res
│   ├── ai
│   ├── databases
│   ├── deep-learning
│   ├── images
│   ├── marl
│   ├── ml
│   ├── professional-python
│   ├── python
│   └── rl
└── src
    ├── ai
    ├── databases
    ├── deep-learning
    ├── marl
    ├── professional-python
    ├── python
    ├── rl
    └── shared
```

Paralell directory structures in `res/` and `src/` are combined via `ark build` or `ark watch` to generate a static site in `docs` (I chose `docs`, which is configured in `site.py` because that's what GitHub Pages uses for static sites not generated by GitHub).  Slides, handouts, etc are in `res`, which is for content that's not processed by the Markdown or HTML processor that applies templates, etc.  Markdown and HTML page sources are in `src`.

## Slides

I use [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#slide-shows) to generate LaTeX [Beamer](https://ctan.org/pkg/beamer) slides from Markdown sources.  I also rely heavily on intermixed LaTex for math and sometimes [TikZ](https://ctan.org/pkg/pgf) diagrams.

Generating slides is simple:

```sh
cd res/ai/slides
pandoc intro-ai.md -t beamer --listings -o intro-ai.pdf
```

Every directory with Markdown slide sources (and compiled PDFs) also contains a file called `beamer-common.tex` where I put a bunch of Beamer preamble stuff that's common to all slides.
